Composed by: Ysela on or about the 23rd of Mayan, 793 AF.

=========Mhaldor's History========

651 AF:  The Trial of Illumination Concludes

652 AF: Pennons bearing Mhaldor's various family arms are placed upon
the Baelgrim ramparts.

655 AF: A crusade against the Bloodsworn shrines is announced by
Minister Jurixe.

656 AF: The Reckoning begins. With two sides battling for control of the
Conclave, Mhaldor sides with Maklak, the Ice Wizard.

661 AF:  Eleusis declares war on Mhaldor. Mhaldor showcases its might
with massive exterminations.

663 AF: The war with Eleusis ends. Mhaldor declares its victory when
Cresil brands Lady Gaia with Mhaldor's mark.

666 AF: Black puddles and claw-like gouges appear in the house-halls
located inside the Baelgrim's Spires.

667 AF: Rasbora, the Maldaathi Blademaster, Zanshin, the Hand, and
Mistress Jaracacas and other denizens vacate the househalls, and destroy
the entrances so none can enter. Mhaldor is found to be under siege by
an unknown force, requiring a sacrifice of Mhaldor's former houses: the
Blood Congregation, Ebon Hand, Maldaathi and Naga houses fall.

668 AF: Two new houses rise into dominion: The Dread Legates and The
Insidium are created.

675 AF: Crucible of Slaves is announced and begun by Melodie
Le'Murzen, Vindicator. 1st-3rd place is a promotion to Troni

679 AF: The Crucible of the Slave ends. Zulah comes in first, Kitiara
second, and Ast third.

680 AF: Tyrannus Ruth is replaced by Xinna. Ruth's reign lasted for
fifty-two years.

681 AF: The Insidum holds a Gala of Unveiling, opening their doors to
all
loyalists of Lord Sartan: demon and mortal alike.

684 AF: An inter-house jubilee celebrating the Dread Legates and
Insidium is
held.

687 AF: Climbing the Spire tournament begins.

688 AF: Lord Marshal Hasar is made an honorary knight.

690 AF: The Climbing the Spire tournament ends, crowning Sir Hasar as
the Champion of Baelgrim.

690 AF: Cyrene ends its long-standing practice of denying Mhaldorian
visitors.

691 AF: A unification contest, the Unsundered Strength Tournament,
begins.

693 AF: Lord and Lady Adryn of Adryn's Keep announce a festival with
city-versus-city contests.

694 AF: Mhaldor triumphs in the Game of Eyes contest.

695 AF: The Unsundered Strength Tournament ends. Kitiara and Calaurn
take first place. Ruth and Saeva second, and Xinna and Aegoth
third.

700 AF: The Y700 games are run. Jarrod triumphs and wins the Staff of
Nicator. He is crowned the new Champion of Baelgrim.

703 AF: Tyrannus Xinna is replaced by Taraus. Xinna's reign lasted
twenty-three years.

704 AF: Mhaldor celebrates its 400th year anniversary with many events,
culminating in a gala.

708 AF: Crucible of Slaves is announced and begun by Insid'ari Kiet
Aristata. 1st-3rd place is a promotion to Troni

710 AF: The Crucible of Slaves ends: Helewys places first, Saira second,
and Tobius third.

713-714 AF: The Championship of Baelgrim is held by Aegoth and Kiet
Aristata for the Ministry of Cultural Affairs. The winner, Alrena, is
crowned the Champion of Baelgrim and has her name engraved on the plaque
at the Colosseum. Second and third place were Kythra and Aegoth,
respectively.

722 AF: Proficy ascends to Tyrannus, replacing Viceroy Taraus.

724 AF: The Tsol'teth return to Sapience for first time since the fall
of the Seleucarian Empire, beginning the second Black Wave.
[The Events of the Black Wave are long, detailed and difficult to recall
in a manner such as this. Interested souls should seek out resources
within the Mhaldorian Library]

727 AF: Arbiter Krahrixdon travels from the Inferno to Mhaldor, at his
command Morimbuul is freed from his bindings and fed, still alive, to
Mhaldorus.

733 AF: Martial law is lifted within Mhaldor, allowing heathens who have
not been enemied to walk freely through His streets to admire the
Strength of Evil, so long as they do not enter the Baelgrim Fortress or
sewers.

733 AF: A large boulder of basalt is dropped near the Baelgrim gates,
preventing passage into the courtyard, at the same time a large daemonic
figure is stationed within the Fortress proper, slaying anyone,
Mhaldorian or not, that attempts to bypass the stone barrier.

734 AF: The boulder blocking the Baelgrim gates is shifted, and passage
in is once again permitted by Mhaldorians.

734 AF: The Fourth Crucible of Slaves is held. Isaiah places first.

739 AF: Furthering the relations between Blackrock and Mhaldor, an
agreement is struck. In exchange for superior weapons and religious
education, King Barak of Blackrock agrees to provide an army of clerics
to guard His city, and labourers to renovate and reinforce the lower
portion of Mhaldor.

741 AF: Lead by one proclaiming himself as, Sarchal, the Daemon
Overlord, a swarm of daemons lay siege to Mhaldor. The citizens of
Mhaldor defended against the continuing waves well into the night for
many days in a row over a few months, before the daemonic onslaught
ceased.

743 AF: In response to Eleusian meddling, Mhaldor begins exterminating
forests in mass. Conflict escalates and Mhaldor continues to exterminate
record amounts of forestal land, damaging the very essence of the
Forests themselves and as a result severely weakening the defences that
strike out against those who find themselves enemied to the trees.

744 AF: Zoci, the Priest of Malevolence arrives within Mhaldor, bringing
with him the teachings of the Seven Catechisms for Mhaldor to begin
studying, and furthering our faith to Evil.

744 AF: Mhaldor and Targossas declare formal war, to be hosted and
monitored by the Aegeans. Lord Sartan and Lord Deucalion strike a divine
wager on the results of the war, a thousand Targossians to be enslaved
by Mhaldor should Evil prevail and a thousand slaves freed from Mhaldor
should Good succeed.

745 AF: The divine wager struck by Lord Sartan and Lord Deucalion is
dissolved, a result of the pathetic cowardice displayed during conflict.

745 AF: The mortal war between Targossas and Mhaldor continues, and by
the skin on their back Targossas manages to prevail in the final naval
battle, barely claiming victory. Lord Marshal Nyderrasethi is beheaded
at the centre of Targossas for his failures.

749 AF: The Grand Library of Mhaldor is constructed beneath the Mhaldor
Cathedral and opened for citizens.

753 AF: Proficy's reign as Tyrannus ends, and Cooper ascends to the
position.

754 AF: The Lord demands that the undead liches that once guarded His
streets be replaced. Cresil performs a blood ritual to contact a group
of daemons known as the Khaal, and allow us to barter with them. In
exchange for for the corpses of the liches , they agree to send their
Khaal Theurgists to guard His city.

754 AF: The Fifth Crucible of Slaves is held by Zackery Aristata. Nylian
comes in first place, Darkenstar and Irraelynda tie for second place.

755 AF: The Chamber of Eyes is constructed and opened within the lower
circle, containing the Wheel of Agony and several other torturous
devices.

756 AF: At the direction of High Priest Asham, the Insidium enact a
terrible ritual to open a rift to the Inferno. Lead by Taryius, the
Legates enter the Inferno and lay seige to a camp of rogue daemons,
leaving none alive.

756 AF: A terrible daemonic roar echoes from the Cathedral, and the
citizens find a daemon soldier by the name of Drasmer within. The Dread
Legates escort him to the Spire of Horror, and formally induct him as
tutor of the Dread Legates.

757 AF: Jeramun, the Flame of the World begins to stir with unusual
behaviour and the armed tanks of Sapience begin to glow with an intense
heat. Mhaldor attempts to detonate one of these white-hot tanks within
Cyrene, only to be routed by the combined forces of several heathen
cities that then detonate one in Mhaldor, causing severe destruction to
the lower circle.

759 AF: The citizens of Mhaldor, at the direction of Alrena, attempted
to subvert and corrupt Elemental Water in the name of the Lord.
Successful for only a brief moment, an Emissary of Sllshya broke past
the gates of the Baelgrim, smashing the tainted amphora before the
influence of Evil could spread far, leaving only the waters near to
Mhaldor Isle infused with the essence of Lord Sartan.

760 AF: Citizens who have earned the capacity to become an Elemental
Lord are banned from assuming that form in the city proper, as a display
of our commitment to Evil's oath, and Evil's oath only.

765 AF: Mhaldor ends its alliance with the Pirates of Moghedu.

767 AF: The appearance of Lyrudo, a demigod in service to Lord Sartan,
leads to the exposing of Dusk, the Listener who had disguised himself as
Sylcine and infiltrated Mhaldor for nearly a century. He is promptly
slain, and it is discovered he was in possession of a warded phylactery,
which with the assistance of Lyrudo is shattered, revealing Azmodai, the
Pit Fiend who was imprisoned within.

774 AF: Cooper's reign as Tyrannus ends, with Alrena ascending to the
position.

781 AF: Mhaldor seizes victory once again in the inaugural Adryn Keep
Tournament.

791 AF: Alrena's reign as Tyrannus ends, with Ysela ascending to the
position.

=================================



Contributors: Zimona, Kiet, Taryius
